Recall Alert: Food Safety provides consumers with easy access to relevant information about food recalls in their area.  
The Recall Alert design prototype represents one 9-day sprint of research, design and development using user-centered design and web site development  to create an MVP product release that addresses real unmet user needs and that testing shows is a usable and valuable web application.           
User-Centered Design Approach
User Research – To get quick results, the team launched an online survey and user interviews to more deeply understand concerns around food recalls, how consumers are getting information now, and to understand their goals for food recalls.    
Rapid low-fidelity prototyping – Next the team moved into rapid low-fidelity prototyping using Axure to explore interaction design, workflow, navigation and content.  The team designed a responsive UI for three separate screen size break points: desktop (1200), tablet (768) and mobile (320).  
User testing – Within days of beginning the process, the team conducted 1:1 task-based usability testing with consumers using the clickable Axure prototype. Testing was conducted on desktop and mobile views.  
Visual design – After finalizing interaction design and functionality for the v1 sprint, the team explored visual design and branding resulting in a visual Style Guide document.   
Front-end development –Front-end developers build the UI to meet functional and design specifications.   The UI is coded in Foundation, an open source, mobile-first, semantic code based on 12-column grid system.  The site uses HTML, CSS and Javascript on top of the Foundation framework.         
Back-end development – The technical approach to Pools B and C is to combine widely-used and proven technologies.  On the application server tier, we use Windows servers on the Azure hosting platform, .Net framework 4.5 and C#, JSON, Microsoft SQL Server, Log4Net logging.  The Azure monitoring plugin is implemented to monitor the website and alert server admins if issues occur. On the client tier, we implemented HTML5, Ajax, JSON, JQuery and JQuery DataTable.  We are using the Unit Testing framework within Microsoft Visual Studio 2012 and implemented Inversion of Control to decouple the object dependencies of the test targets. 
We used test-driven development as much as possible for these limited prototypes. The back-end and front-end components are stored in GitHub repositories.  The Azure web platform hooks into the GitHub repositories for continuous deployment for functional testing of the prototypes.
Load and performance testing was accomplished using Microsoft Visual Studio Online.  The results were documented and adjustments made to the server platform as a result.
Agile Development methodology – Jira was used to create and manage user stories, and issues associated with the project.  An initial backlog of issues was created and as the user design process was iterated,  selected features were prioritized into the 9 day Sprint.  Issues were assigned to the relevant team member and a daily standup was held to review progress, examine and address road blocks, and assess upcoming work.
